Poseidon, god of the racing steeds, I salute you, you who delight in their neighing and in the resounding clatter of their brass - shod hoofs, god of the swift galleys, which, loaded with mercenaries, cleave the seas with their azure beaks, god of the equestrian contests, in which young rivals, eager for glory, ruin themselves for the sake of distinction with their chariots in the arena, come and direct our chorus; Poseidon with the trident of gold, you, who reign over the dolphins, who are worshipped at Sunium and at Geraestus beloved of Phormio, and dear to the whole city above all the immortals, I salute you! (Aristophanes Knights, first semi - chorus)
We will sing likewise the exploits of our steeds! they are worthy of our praises; in what invasions, what fights have I not seen them helping us! But especially admirable were they, when they bravely leapt upon the galleys, taking nothing with them but a coarse wine, some cloves of garlic and onions; despite this, they nevertheless seized the sweeps just like men, curved their backs over the thwarts and shouted, Hippapai!Give way!Come, all pull together!Come, come!How!Samphoras!Are you not rowing ?" "They rushed down upon the coast of Corinth, and the youngest hollowed out beds in the sand with their hoofs or went to fetch coverings; instead of luzern, they had no food but crabs, which they caught on the strand and even in the sea; so that Theorus causes a Corinthian crab to say, "'Tis a cruel fate, oh Posidon neither my deep hiding-places, whether on land or at sea, can help me to escape the Knights." (Aristophanes Knights, second semi-chorus)
I am two things: a fighter who follows the Master of Battles, And one who understands the gift of the Muses’ love(Archilochus 1) It is my spear that makes my bread, my spear That wins me my wine; and I lean on My spear as I drink it! (Archilochus 2)
Some barbarian fighter is waving my shield about, since I had to Leave that it behind, under a bush, though it was in perfectly good Shape. But what does it matter? I escaped with my life! Let the shield go – I’ll buy another one! (Archilochus 3)
Eternal Clouds!Let us arise to view with our dewy, clear - bright nature, from loud-sounding Father Ocean to the wood - crowned summits of the lofty mountains, in order that we may behold clearly the far - seen watch - towers, and the fruits, and the fostering, sacred earth, and the rushing sounds of the divine rivers, and the roaring, loud - sounding sea; for the unwearied eye of Aether sparkles with glittering rays.Come, let us shake off the watery cloud from our immortal forms and survey the earth with far - seeing eye. (Aristophanes Birds, 275 - 280, tr.Hall and Geldart)
In Delos Leto once bore children, Golden - haired Phoebus, lord Apollo, And the shooter of deer, the huntress Artemis, who holds great power over women(PMG 886, tr.G.Jones)