Like a blacksmith the Love God has hammered me and crushed me On his anvil, and has crushed me in a winter torment (Anacreon of Teos 3, tr.Lattimore)
Many in truth are your comrades when there's food and drink, but not so many when the enterprise is serious. (Theognis 115-116) Enjoy your youth, my dear heart: soon it will be the turn of other men, and I'll be dead and become dark earth. (Theognis 877-878) " + "\"" + "Two demons of drink beset wretched mortals, enfeebling thirst and harsh drunkenness. I'll steer a middle course between them and you won't persuade me either not to drink or to drink too much. "(Theognis 837 - 840)"
O wretched poverty, why do you delay to leave me and go to another man? Don't be attached to me against my will, but go, visit another house, and don't always share this miserable life with me. (Theognis 351-354) Don't show affection for me in your words but keep your mind and heart elsewhere, if you love me and the mind within you is loyal. Either love me sincerely or renounce me, hate me and quarrel openly (Theognis 87-90)
To all to whom there is pleasure in song and to people yet unborn You also will be a song, while the earth and sun remain, Yet I am treated by you without even the least mark of respect And, as if I were a child, you have deceived me with words. (Theognis 251 - 254) (6th c BC)
Best of all for mortal beings is never to have been born at all Nor ever to have set eyes on the bright light of the sun But, since he is born, a man should make utmost haste through the gates of Death And then repose, the earth piled into a mound round himself. (Theognis 425 - 428)
I have been in my time as far as the land of Sicily. I have been to Euboia, where vineyards grow in the plain, And Sparta, the shining city by the reedy banks of Eurotas; And everywhere I was met with enthusiasm and love, But my heart has taken no joy from the attentions of strangers. A man’s own country is dearest.This is the truth in the end. (Theognis 783 - 88, tr.Lattimore)
Being no more than a man, you cannot tell what will happen tomorrow, Nor, when you see one walk in prosperity know for how much time it will be. For overturn on the light - lifting wings of a dragonfly Is not more swift. (Simonides of Ceos 3, tr.Lattimore)
No longer, maiden voice sweet-calling, sounds of allurement, Can my limbs bear me up; oh I wish, I wish I could be a seabird Who with halcyons skims the surf - flowers of the sea water With careless heart, a sea-blue - colored and sacred waterfowl (Alman of Sparta 3, tr.Lattimore)