Drink with me. Be young with me. Love with me. Wear crowns with me (PMG 901) Be crazy with me when I’m crazy! Be sensible when I have sense(PMG 902) Drink and get drunk with me, my friend Melanippos! Why would you say that once you cross the great eddying River of Acheron you will see the pure light of the sun again ? (Alcaeus Fr. 38A)
Whom do we most praise? The man who sings The great thoughts that flow into his mind, and reflect his good heart. We’ve no use for stories of Titans and Giants Or centaurs, figments of our fathers’ imaginations! (Xenophanes of Colophon 1. 19 - 22)
Here I go again! Golden Desire (she is blonde) Hits me squarely with a purple ball, Calling me out to play With that young thing wearing nice sandals…. (Anacreon Fr. 358)
Ah, but I wish I were a large bit of gold And a beautiful someone would wear me with a pure mind!(PMG 900) O Pan, ruler of glorious Arcadia, Dancer, companion of the Bacchic Nymphs Laugh, o Pan, at my merriment Rejoicing in my song (PMG 887, tr.G.Jones)
See, I have given you wings on which to hover uplifted High above earth entire and the great waste of the sea Without strain.Wherever men meet in festivals, as men Gather, you will be there, your name will be spoken again As the young singers, with the flutes clear piping beside them, Make you into a part of the winsome verses, and sing Of you. (Theognis  237 - 243, tr.Lattimore)
Zeus rains upon us, and from the sky comes down Enormous winter.Rivers have turned to ice… Dash down the winter.Throw a log on the fire And mix the flattering wine(do not water it Too much), and bind on round our foreheads Soft ceremonial wreaths of spun fleece. We must not let our spirits give way to grief. By being sorry we get no further on, (Alcaeus of Mytilene 4, tr.Lattimore)
Greeting oh Muse! Who dwells in trees and glades, And in my drinking cup – chirpity chirp chirp! I may sit on a stump still Green with leaves, and in hill and dale I’ll sing my praise - chirpity chirp chirp! And with a little brown beak, Like a little brown bird, I’ll sing for the delight of goaty foot Pan, And the Mountain Mother who makes us dance, Chirrripity chirp chirp! And I’ll sing for the places where Bees like to drink, the ambrosial Flowers, that may make them sing, Buzzety buzz buzzy, buzzety buzz! (adapted from Phrynichus, in Aristophanes Birds)
Was there ever a time That the god of drinking Was not the object Of our grateful thanks ? The one wearing ivy, the one carrying a wand, Greeks have told his tales ever since Leaves learned to bud, and vines learned to grow, Reaching up to the sky and giving birth to Oodles of little grape babies, who never speak Till they are crushed, and milked, and turned into The drink all men may share – and then they have their own babies, Feasting, friendship and dance. Let my life be long, and my garlands green! (adapted from Ion of Chios, CURFRAG.tlg - 0308.1)
All hail our potentate, our savior in a pinch, our ruler of the moment! Let the drinks be blended, Let the cups be silver, Let our hands be washed with wine And offerings be poured: First to Zeus, then to Herakles and Alkmena, Then to Prokles and the children of Perseus, And let’s drink, let’s play, let’s sing songs that rise Into the night air above our heads; Let’s dance a fling, Let’s make friends. (adapted from Ion of Chios, CURFRAG.tlg - 0308.2)
Receive my toast, friend Theodorus – A cup full of words!In it are The graces themselves, mingled with scraps of Scribbled on paper.Now promise me Songs in return, so that Our feasts may be light and your happiness greater! (adapted from Dionysius the Brazen, CURFRAG.tlg - 0246.1)
It’s time for love-struck young men To add a third kind of kottabos To the noisy ranks of the drinking god! Everybody twist your fingers into the handles of your cups, And count in your minds how much space lies Between your drinking couch and the goal – then let it fly! (adapted from Dionysius the Brazen, CURFRAG.tlg - 0246.3)
You sweet old weaver of girly songs, Party maker, cheater of women, Rival of flute playing, Lover of lyres, the delightful and the dull Loving you will never grow old or die, Anacreon my friend, As long as servants serve drinks, And waiters bring food, Dances last all night, And the kottabos - pole stands ready for the flicking of wine drops! (adapted from Critias, CURFRAG.tlg - 0319.9)
Now the floor is swept clean, every guest’s hands Are washed, the cups are shining.One settles garlands on his head, puts on his garlands, Another passes sweet smelling  myrrh on a dish.The mixing bowl Is close at hand and ready for service, full of the spirit of cheer, And still more drink is ready and will not disappoint, Sweet and strong, in earthen jars, holding its fragrance in reserve (Xenophanes of Colophon 1.1 - 7)