The wise can often profit by the lessons of a foe, for caution is the mother of safety. It is just such a thing as one will not learn from a friend and which an enemy compels you to know. To begin with, it's the foe and not the friend that taught cities to build high walls, to equip long vessels of war; and it's this knowledge that protects our children, our slaves and our wealth. (Aristophanes’ Birds, Epops)
Health is best for a mortal man, Second, to be beautiful in stature, Third to be wealthy without guile, And fourth to be young with one’s friends (PMG 890, tr.G.Jones)
The crab spoke thus Taking the snake in its claw, ‘a comrade ought to be straight And not think crooked thoughts’ (PMG 892, tr.G.Jones)
If only it were possible to see what everyone is really like By opening his breast, and looking at his mind To close it back again And consider the man to be a friend with an honest heart (PMG 889, tr.G.Jones)
Would that you, blind wealth, Never on earth, nor sea Nor land had appeared, But dwell instead in Tartarus and Acheron; because of you there Is every kind of evil for mankind (Timokreon of Rhodes, PMG 731, tr.G.Jones)
Some there are who say that the fairest thing seen On the black earth is an array of horsemen; Some, men, marching; some would say ships; but I say She whom one loves best Is the loveliest.Light were the work to make this Plain to all, since she, who surpassed in beauty All mortality, Helen, once forsaking Her lordly husband, Fled away to Troy-land across the water. Not the thought of child nor beloved parents Was remembered, after the Queen of Cyprus Won her at first sight. (Sappho 3, tr.Lattimore)
It is easier to beget and rear a man than to put good sense in him. No one has yet devised a means whereby one has made the fool wise and a noble man out of one who is base. (Theognis 429-431)
But 'tis with good intent to thee, friend Cyrnus, that I shall give thee the counsels which I learnt from good men in my own childhood. Be thou wise and draw to thyself neither honors nor virtues nor substance on account of dishonourable or unrighteous deeds. This then I would have thee to know, nor to consort with the bad but ever to cleave unto the good, and at their tables to eat and to drink, and with them to sit,11 and them to please, for their power is great.12 Of good men shalt thou learn good, but if thou mingle with the bad, thou shalt e'en lose the wit thou hast already. Consort therefore with the good, and someday thou'lt say that I counsel my friends aright. (Theognis 27 - 38) (Loeb)
Kyrnos my friend, Be flexible in character, always adapting, Your own mood to that of the friend you chance to be with;, Be as the lithe and tentacled octopus, altering color, So that it matches and loses itself in the rock where it clings;, So be you; be now like this, then change your complexion;, Better you should be subtle than stubbornly always the same, (Theognis 213 - 218)
There is one story That Virtue has her dwelling place above rock walls hard to climb With a grave chorus of light-footed nymphs attendant about her, And she is not to be looked upon by the eyes of every mortal, Only by one who with sweat, with clenched concentration And courage, climbs to the peak. (Simonides of Ceos 5, tr.Lattimore)
To be a good man, without blame and without question, Foursquare founded hand and foot, mind also Faultless fashioned, is difficult. Thus the word of Pittakos (Simonides of Ceos 6, tr.Lattimore)
While you live, shine And have no grief whatsoever. Life exists for only a moment And Time demands his toll. (Epitaph of Seikolos, 100BC - 200 AD, found near Ephesus)